What is git?

Git is a version control system. This is essentially a cloud based backup mechanism as well as work management system carried out in a team.
Allows multiple people working on the same project, allows easy tracking of changes made. Also backs up work to prevent losses due to unforseen failure.


Git status?

Recent changes on the current branch. State of working directory and the staging area.



What is git add and git commit?

It adds the files to the staging area, the staging area is later used to commit the files.
The git commit command adds your changes to the local version control database. We need to push these changes to the remote server.



What is git origin?

In Git, "origin" is a shorthand name for the remote repository that a project was originally cloned from. More precisely, 
it is used instead of that original repository's URL - and thereby makes referencing much easier.




Undo changes before commit?

git checkout -- filename



Revert the committed changes?

git revert <commit id> (obtained from git log command). Using git commit -m will require explicit committing of undone changes.



Reset to previous state?

git reset --hard <commit id where we need to go>




Why branches needed in git? How to do?

To keep original file intact and we can experiment with the project. Allows parallel code development. 
Create and switch to branch: git checkout -b <brach name>



List all branches?

git branch



Switch to a branch?

git checkout <brach name>


Merge branches?

First go to the base branch. Then git merge <brach name>


Delete branch?

git branch -d <brach name>



What is HEAD in git?

Head is a reference to the most recent commit. HEAD can be used instead of commit id for the latest commit reference. 
HEAD = Latest commit id
HEAD~1 = Second last commit id
HEAD~2 = Third last commit id.. and so on.



What is detached head state and how GIT internally manages HEAD?

When HEAD is shifted to some different commit state, then it is called the detached HEAD state. Using git checkout <commit id>,
we can get a detached head state.
Internally, a file named HEAD is maintained in .git folder (it is a hidden file).  



What is .gitignore file?

It list the type of files to ignore when pushing on the remote server. We put regex here to help git recognize the files by name.





